## [0.8.0]
- Updates `RecipeInterface` and `APIInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the emailpassword recipe.
- Updates `RecipeInterface` and `APIInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the thirdparty recipe.
- Updates `RecipeInterface` and `APIInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the passwordless recipe.
- Updates `RecipeInterface` and `APIInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the openid recipe.
- Updates `RecipeInterface` and `APIInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the JWT recipe.
- Updates `RecipeInterface` and `APIInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the session recipe.
- Updates `RecipeInterface` methods to return exact return types instead of abstract base types, for the usermetadata recipe.
- Adds `EmailPasswordSignInOkResult`, `EmailPasswordSignUpOkResult` and `ThirdPartySignInUpOkResult` to use the thirdpartyemailpassword recipe's `User` class.
- Adds `ThirdPartySignInUpPostOkResult`, `EmailPasswordSignInPostOkResult` and `EmailPasswordSignUpPostOkResult` to use the thirdpartyemailpassword recipe's `User` class.
- Renames wrongly named `ResetPasswordUsingTokenWrongUserIdErrorResult` to `ResetPasswordUsingTokenInvalidTokenError`, one of the return types of `reset_password_using_token` method in the `RecipeInterface`.
- Removes unused classes `GeneratePasswordResetTokenResponse`, `EmailExistsResponse` and `PasswordResetResponse`.
- Removed `third_party_info` from emailpassword `User` class.
- Exports re-used Result and Response classes from `thirdparty` & `emailpassword` recipe interfaces in the `thirdpartyemailpassword` recipe interfaces.
- Exports re-used Result and Response classes from `thirdparty` & `passwordless` recipe interfaces in the `thirdpartypasswordless` recipe interfaces.
- Renames `*ErrorResult` classes to `*Error`.
- Renames `*ErrorResponse` classes to `*Error`.
- Renames `*OkResponse` classes to `*OkResult`.
- Renames `*ResultOk` classes to `*OkResult`.
