## [0.9.0] - 2022-06-23
### Fixes
- Fixes Cookie same_site config validation.
- Remove `<Recipe>(Email|SMS)TemplateVars` in favour of `(Email|SMS)TemplateVars` for better DX.

### Breaking change
-   https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node/issues/220
    -   Adds `{status: "GENERAL_ERROR", message: string}` as a possible output to all the APIs.
    -   Changes `FIELD_ERROR` output status in third party recipe API to be `GENERAL_ERROR`.
    -   Replaced `FIELD_ERROR` status type in third party signinup API with `GENERAL_ERROR`.
    -   Removed `FIELD_ERROR` status type from third party signinup recipe function.
-   If sms or email sending failed in passwordless recipe APIs, we now throw a regular JS error from the API as opposed to returning a `GENERAL_ERROR` to the client.
-   If there is an error whilst getting the profile info about a user from a third party provider (in /signinup POST API), then we throw a regular JS error instead of returning a `GENERAL_ERROR` to the client.
- Make email and sms delivery ingredient interfaces developer friendly:
    - Remove the need of `SMSDeliveryTwilioConfig`, `EmailDeliverySMTPConfig`, and `SupertokensServiceConfig`.
    - Export `(.*)OverrideInput` and `(Email|SMS)DeliveryOverrideInput` from the relevant recipes.
    - Rename `Type<Recipe>EmailDeliveryInput` to `<Recipe>EmailTemplateVars`
    - Export `EmailTemplateVars` (alias of `<Recipe>EmailTemplateVars`) from all the relevant recipes
    - Export `PasswordlessLogin(Email|SMS)TemplateVars`, `PasswordResetEmailTemplateVars`, and `VerificationEmailTemplateVars` from relevant recipes.
    - Rename `(.*)ServiceConfig` to `(.*)Settings` for readability.
    - Rename arg `input_` to `template_vars` in `EmailDeliveryInterface.send_email` and `SMTPServiceInterface.send_sms` functions.
    - Rename arg `input_` to `content` and `template_vars` in `SMTPServiceInterface.send_raw_email` and `SMTPServiceInterface.get_content` functions respectively.
    - Rename arg `get_content_result` to `content` and `input_` to `template_vars` in `TwilioServiceInterface.send_raw_email` and `TwilioServiceInterface.get_content` functions respectively.
- Removes support for FDI < 1.14

### Changes
-   Changes `get_email_for_user_id` function inside thirdpartypasswordless to take into account passwordless emails and return an empty string in case a passwordless email doesn't exist. This helps situations where the dev wants to customise the email verification functions in the thirdpartypasswordless recipe.
